So what is the relevance of the.
So one of the most common programming concepts that you would come across as the timeless, timeless
houts and scheduling the events in future are periodically timeless, are extensively used in many domain
of computer science, especially in networking.
Networking just do not exist without timers as simple as that.
For example, if you have studied DSP protocol and TCP uses various types of tumors, for example,
time or for scheduling an acknowledgement packet all timer to run its backoff algorithm, then in real
world applications you must have got OTP on your mobile phone when you do certain transactions on the
website so that OTP is linked to a time out time period.
If you do not use that OTP, then do not work.
If you do not use the OTP within that time bound and it expires.
Right.
Similarly, if you login to certain websites and there is a timer running behind the scenes and if you
do not show any activity activity, then the session log out.
Similarly, as I said that in networking, it is a very common scenario that the network application
send out periodic packets to some other remote machines in the network.
Various networking protocols has the requirement to send out periodic backups for their implementation.
So not working as a complete domain would have not existed had there been no timers done.
Time outs are also used for deviling or scheduling the computation.
So in this section we will going to study Linux and will POSIX compliant Taimur APIs and on the top
of those APIs we will going to build our own custom more controllable Tiber's.
Right?
If we are dealing with the timer based applications as a developer or programmer, you must have a steering
wheel in your hand.
For example, you must be able to start the timer past the timer, assume the timer, kill the timer
or reschedule the timer at your will.
Right.
So we will going to see how to develop all those APIs and concepts.